
## Formatting Conventions
This book and supporting materials use the following formatting conventions:
### Web Address

Web address will be shown as:
 
 > [https://github.com/ProfessorKazarinoff/Problem-Solving-101-with-Python](https://github.com/ProfessorKazarinoff/Problem-Solving-101-with-Python)
 
### Import terms and vocabulary
 
Important terms and vocabulary are shown in _italic text_
 
 
 > There is a difference between _local variables_ and _global variables_ in Python code
  
### File Names
 
File Names are  shown in **_bold and italic text_**

 > After completing the code, save the file as **_hello.py_** in the current directory.
### Module and Package Names
 
 Module and Package names will be shown in **bold text**
 
  > **Numpy** and **matplotlib** are two useful Python packages for engineers
  
 
### Inline code
 
Inline code including variable names is shown in ```monospace font```

 > To compare a variable use ```var == 'string'``` and make sure to include ```==```, the double equals sign
  
### Seperate code blocks
  
  Separate code blocks will appear in their own areas in ```monospaced font```

```
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
```
### Terminal and Anaconda Prompt Commands
 
 Commands typed into the terminal or **Anaconda Prompt** will be in seperate boxes which contain ```$``` the dollar sign before each line. Note the ```$``` dollar sign should not be typed. It is included to indicate the terminal or Anaconda prompt, not a character for the user to enter.
 
```
$ conda creat -n newenv python=3.6
$ conda activate newenv
```
### Python REPL Commands

Commands typed into the Python REPL, or Python Interpreter is shown in separate code boxes which contain ```>>>``` the triple arrow prompt. Note the ```>>>``` triple arrow sign should not be typed. The triple arrow prompt is included to indicate the Python REPL prompt, not a character for the user to enter. The output from the Python REPL will be shown on a separate line below the command, without the >>> prompt.

```python
>>> 2 + 2
4
>>> print('Python for Undergraduate Engineers')
Python for Undergraduate Engineers
```
### Jupyter Notebook cells

Commands typed into **Jupyter Notebook** cells appear with a label ```In [#]:``` and ```Out [#]:``` in front of a separate code block. Output from a jupyter notebook cell will be shown after the input cell. When typing the code examples into a jupyter notebook, only copy the code in the input cells. The output cells will be produced automatically when the run button is clicked or the user types ```[shift]+[Enter]```
<div class="cell border-box-sizing code_cell rendered">
<div class="input">
<div class="prompt input_prompt">In&nbsp;[1]:</div>
<div class="inner_cell">
    <div class="input_area">
<div class=" highlight hl-ipython3"><pre><span></span><span class="n">A</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="mi">2</span>
<span class="n">B</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="mi">3</span>
<span class="n">C</span> <span class="o">=</span> <span class="n">A</span> <span class="o">+</span> <span class="n">B</span>
<span class="nb">print</span><span class="p">(</span><span class="n">C</span><span class="p">)</span>
</pre></div>

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class="output_wrapper">
<div class="output">


<div class="output_area">

<div class="prompt"></div>


<div class="output_subarea output_stream output_stdout output_text">
<pre>5
</pre>
</div>
</div>

</div>
</div>

</div>
 

