
## Why Python?
You might be wondering "Why should an engineer learn Python?" There are other programming languages in the engineering world such as MATLAB, LabView, C++ and Java. What makes Python useful for problem solvers?
### Python is a powerful programming language

Python can be used for large projects that run at scale. Some companies and websites using Python are YouTube, Instagram, Facebook, Netflix and Dropbox. 

Python is also used in cutting edge scientific research at CERN to investigate sub-atomic particles and was part of the analysis to prove the existence of gravitational waves using data from the LIGO experiment.

### Python is easy to learn and use

One way Python helps solve problems faster than other programming languages is that it is easy to learn and use. Python programs tends to be shorter and quicker to write than a program that does a similar function written in another computer programming language. In the rapid design-prototype-test-iterate cycle, programming solutions built with Python can be spun up quickly. Python is also an easy language for fellow engineers on your team to learn. It is also quite human readable. While programmers can become preoccupied with a programs run time, it is development time that takes the longest.

### Python is transportable
Python can be installed and run on each of the three major operating systems: Windows, Mac and Linux. On Mac and Linux Python comes installed out of the box. Just open up a terminal in on a Mac OSX or Linux machine and type \texttt{python}. That's it, you are now using Python. On Windows I recommend downloading and using the Ananaconda distribution. The Anaconda distrobution is free and can be installed on all three major operating systems. The same programming environment can be replecated accross the three different opperating systems.

### Python is free
MATLAB and LabView cost students to use and cost companies and colleges even more. Python is free to download and use. It is also open source and free to modify, contribute to, and propose improvements. All of the packages available for download on the Python Package Index, PyPI (pronouced pie-pee-eye) are free to download and install. Many more packages, scripts and utilities can be found in open source repos on github and bitbucket. 

### Python is growing
Python is growing in popularity. Python is particularly growing in the data sciences and in use with GIS systems, physical modeling, machine learning and computer vision. These are growing team problem solving areas for engineers.  
### Python has extensive standard library of modules and a vast array of external modules
#### Pythons Standard Library

Python has an extensive standard library. A huge number of object types, functions and methods are available for use without importing any external modules. Some functions and methods in the Python Standard Library include math functions, list methods, calls to a computer's operating system and much more. A lot of problem solving can be done with the Python Standard Library. The first couple chapters of this book will just use Python's Built-in modules and modules in the Standard Library. 

A table of useful Python Standard Library modules for problem solving is below:

| Standard Library module | utility |
| --- | --- |
| ```math``` | mathematical functions |
| ```statistics``` | statistical functions |
| ```sys``` | system functions |
| ```os``` | operating system functions |
| ```datetime``` | date and time functions |
| ```string``` | string functions |
| ```random``` | pseudo random numbers |
| ```csv``` | reading and writing **_.csv_** files |
| ```urllib``` | web address functions |

The complete Standard Library can be found on Python Read-the-docs: [https://docs.python.org](https://docs.python.org)
    
#### External Modules available on PyPI

Python has over 100,000 external packages available for download and use. These external packages are easy to install off of the Python Package Index, commonly called PyPI ("pie pee eye"). There is a python package for just about everything. There are packages which can help you with: web interactions, complex computations, unit conversions, plotting, working with .csv, .xls, and .pdf files, images manipulation, sensors and test equipment, machine learning, web apps, GIS data and many more added every day. In this book, we will use some of the more useful Python packages for engineers such as **jupyter**, **numpy**, and **matplotlib**.

A table of useful third-party packages for problem solving is below:

| package | utility |
| --- | --- |
| **numpy** | numerical calculations with homogenous arrays |
| **matplotlib** | plotting and data visualization |
| **jupyter** | interactive notebook computing environment |
| **pandas** | dataframe functionality |
| **sympy** | symbolic Math |
| **pyserial** | serial port communication |
| **flask** | web development |
| **pint** | unit conversions |
| **schemdraw** | circuity diagrams |

installing Python modules from PyPI can be done on the command line or at the Anaconda Prompt using:

```
> pip install module_name
```

where ``module_name`` is the name of the module you want to install.
<div class="cell border-box-sizing code_cell rendered">
<div class="input">
<div class="prompt input_prompt">In&nbsp;[&nbsp;]:</div>
<div class="inner_cell">
    <div class="input_area">
<div class=" highlight hl-ipython3"><pre><span></span> 
</pre></div>

    </div>
</div>
</div>

</div>
 

