
## Installing Juypter
To install **Jupyter Notebooks**, the simplest way is to use the **Anaconda** distribution of Python. The **Anaconda** distribution of Python has **Jupyter notebooks** pre-installed and no further installation steps are necessary.
### Installing Jupyter on Windows

To install jupyter on Windows, open the **Anaconda Prompt** and type:

```
> conda install jupyter
```

Type ```y``` for yes when prompted.

Alternativly, open a **command prompt** and type:

```
> pip install jupyter
```
### Installing Jupyter on Mac OSX

To install **jupyter** on Mac OSX, open the OSX terminal and type:

```
$ conda install jupyter
```

Type ```y``` for yes when prompted.

If **conda** is not installed, the **Anaconda** Distribution of Python can be installed, which should install **conda** for use in the MacOS terminal.

Alternatively, Jupyter Notebooks can be installed using the MacOS terminal by typing:

```
$ pip install jupyter
```

or

```
$ pip3 install jupyter
```


Note problems can crop up using the system version of Python on MacOS. Packages may not install on the system version of Python. Moreover, packages which do install on the system version of Python may not run correctly. It is therefore recommended that MacOS users install the **Anaconda** distribution of Python or use **homebrew** to install a separate non-system version of Python. To install a non-system version of Python with **homebrew**, key in the following in the MacOS terminal:

```
$ brew install Python
```
### Installing Jupyter on Ubuntu Linux

To install **jupyter** on Ubuntu Linux, open a terminal and type:

```text
$ conda install jupyter
```

Type ```y``` for yes when prompted.

Alternatively, if the **Anaconda** distribution of Python is not installed, one can use:

```text
$ pip install jupyter
```

or

```text
$ pip3 install jupyter
```
<div class="cell border-box-sizing code_cell rendered">
<div class="input">
<div class="prompt input_prompt">In&nbsp;[&nbsp;]:</div>
<div class="inner_cell">
    <div class="input_area">
<div class=" highlight hl-ipython3"><pre><span></span> 
</pre></div>

    </div>
</div>
</div>

</div>
 

