
## Installing Matplotlib
Matplotlib must be installed in the working Python environment before it can be used. There are three different ways to install Matplotlib:

 * Install Matplotlib with the Anaconda distribution of Python
 * Install Matplotlib with the **Anaconda Prompt**
 * Install Matplotlib with **pip**
### Install Matplotlib with the Anaconda distribution of Python

If you downloaded and installed the Anaconda distribution of Python, Matplotlib came with it and therefore Matplotlib is already installed. No further installation is necessary unless a separate virtual environment is used. If you do not have the Anaconda distribution of Python, Matplotlib can be installed by downloading and installing the Anaconda distribution of Python, as the Matplotlib is part of the distribution.
### Installing Matplotlib with the Anaconda Prompt

To install matplotlib with the Anaconda Prompt, open the Anaconda Prompt and type:

```
> conda install matplotlib
```

Type ```y``` for yes when prompted.
### Installing Matplotlib with pip
To install Matplotlib with **pip** (the Python package manager), open a terminal window and type:

```
$ pip install matplotlib
```

This command installs Matplotlib in the current working python environment.
Once installed, you can confirm Matplotlib is available for import by opening up the Python REPL or a Jupyter notebook and typing:
<div class="cell border-box-sizing code_cell rendered">
<div class="input">
<div class="prompt input_prompt">In&nbsp;[1]:</div>
<div class="inner_cell">
    <div class="input_area">
<div class=" highlight hl-ipython3"><pre><span></span><span class="o">&gt;&gt;&gt;</span> <span class="kn">import</span> <span class="nn">matplotlib</span>
<span class="o">&gt;&gt;&gt;</span> <span class="n">matplotlib</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">__version__</span>
</pre></div>

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class="output_wrapper">
<div class="output">


<div class="output_area">

<div class="prompt output_prompt">Out[1]:</div>




<div class="output_text output_subarea output_execute_result">
<pre>&#39;2.1.2&#39;</pre>
</div>

</div>

</div>
</div>

</div>
Once Matplotlib is installed, you can start building line plots, bar charts, pie charts, and scatter plots. Each of these plot types will be described in a different section of this chapter. The simplest kind of plot to build with Matplotlib is a line plot. A simple line plots is the first type of plot we'll create.
 

