
## Virtual Environments
Using __virtual environments__ is good standard practice when using Python. A virtual environment is a standalone Python interpreter and isolated installed packages unique to that environment. 
### Benefits of Virtual Environments
Virtual environments keep the Python version and stand-alone package versions all in the same place. If two different projects use two different versions of Python or use two different versions of an installed 3rd-party package, virtual environments separates these two installations separate. 

The Python version and installed packages in a virtual environment can be shared with others in the form of a **_requirements.txt_** or **_environment.yml_** file. These files can be shared to produce the same environment on another machine or so the same environment can be reproduced by another programmer.
### Get the current Python interpreter
The file path to the current running Python interpreter can be accessed using the **sys** module. ```sys.prefix``` will output the system path for the running Python interpreter
<div class="cell border-box-sizing code_cell rendered">
<div class="input">
<div class="prompt input_prompt">In&nbsp;[1]:</div>
<div class="inner_cell">
    <div class="input_area">
<div class=" highlight hl-ipython3"><pre><span></span><span class="kn">import</span> <span class="nn">sys</span>
<span class="n">sys</span><span class="o">.</span><span class="n">prefix</span>
</pre></div>

</div>
</div>
</div>

<div class="output_wrapper">
<div class="output">


<div class="output_area">

<div class="prompt output_prompt">Out[1]:</div>




<div class="output_text output_subarea output_execute_result">
<pre>&#39;/home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/book&#39;</pre>
</div>

</div>

</div>
</div>

</div>
### Get a list of installed packages
A list of installed packages in the current environment can be accessed using the **site** module. ```site.getsitepackages()``` will return the file path where the site-packages are stored. The code below will lists all of the installed packages using the **os** module and ```os.listdir()``` to list the contents of the directory where the site-packages are stored.
```python
import os
import site
print(site.getsitepackages())
os.listdir(site.getsitepackages()[0])
```

```python
['/home/peter/anaconda3/envs/book/lib/python3.6/site-packages']

['jinja2',
 'asn1crypto',
 'ipython_genutils-0.2.0-py3.6.egg-info',
 'alabaster',
 'yapf-0.22.0-py2.7.egg-info',
 'requests',
 'Pygments-2.2.0-py3.6.egg-info',
 'urllib3',
 ...]
```
### Virtual environments with conda
The **Anaconda Prompt** is useful for installing third party packages and creating virtual environments. To create the new virtual environment, issue the following command at the **Anaconda Prompt**:

```text
> conda create --name <env_name> python=3.6
```

The ```conda create``` command builds the new virtual environment. The ```--name <env_name>``` flag gives the new virtual environment the name ```<env_name>```. Replace ```<env_name>``` with the name of the new virtual environment. Including ```python=3.6``` ensures the virtual environment has an up to date version of Python. 

After issuing the command, the output will be something like:

```text
The following NEW packages will be INSTALLED:

    certifi:        2016.2.28-py36_0
    pip:            9.0.1-py36_1
    python:         3.6.2-0
    setuptools:     36.4.0-py36_0
    vs2015_runtime: 14.0.25420-0
    wheel:          0.29.0-py36_0
    wincertstore:   0.2-py36_0

Proceed ([y]/n)? y
```

Type ```y``` to confirm and create the new virtual environment. To use the new virtual environment, it needs to be  _activated_. A virtual environment is activated by typing the command below. Note that ```<env_name>``` needs to be replaced by the name of the virtual environment.

```text
>  conda activate <env_name>
```

You know you are in your virtual environment ```<env_name>``` when ```(<env_name>)``` is in parenthesis at the start of the **Anaconda Prompt**:

```text
> (webscrape)
```

To deactivate an active environment, type:

```text
> conda deactivate
```

If you see the ```(<env_name>)``` in parenthesis before the command prompt, that means the new virtual environment is set up and active. A list of your virtual environments installed on your machine can be accessed using the ```conda info --envs``` or ```conda env list``` commands.

```text
> conda info --envs

# conda environments:
#
matplotlib               /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/matplotlib
webscrape              * /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/webscrape
base                     /home/tribilium/anaconda3
```

Notice the ``` * ``` asterisk on the line with ```webscrape```. The virtual environment with the ``` * ``` is currently active. 

To exit the virtual environment, use the command ```conda deactivate```. If ```conda env list``` is run again, there will  not be an asterisk ```*``` in front of ```webscrape```. That's because ```webscrape``` is not the active virtual environment.

```text
> conda env list

# conda environments:
#
matplotlib               /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/matplotlib
webscrape                /home/tribilium/anaconda3/envs/webscrape
base                  *  /home/tribilium/anaconda3
```
### Virtual environments with pip and virtualenv
Virtual environments can also be created with **pip**, and a 3rd-party python environment manager **virtualenv**. **virtualenv** is a Python package used to create and manage virtual environments. To use **virtualenv**, first make sure it is installed using **pip** at the commandline.

```text
$ pip install virtualenv
```

Once installed, **virtualenv** will create a new virtual environment with the command below. Note ```<env_name>``` needs to be replaced by the name of the new virtual environment.

```text
$ virtualenv <env_name>
```

To activate the virtual environment use the command:

```text
$ source bin/activate
```

Once active, the virtual environment name will be shown in parenthesis ```()``` before the command prompt

```text
(<env_name>)$
```

The location of the Python interpreter being used by the currenly active virtual environment can be found with:

```text
(<env_name>)$ which python
/Users/peter/<env_name>/bin/python
```

To exit the virtual environment use the command ```deactivate```:

```text
(<env_name>)$ deactivate
```

When the virtual environment is no longer active, there will be no environment name before the command prompt. A check for the current Python interpreter will return a different path than before when the virtual environment was active

```text
$ which python
/usr/bin/python
```

 

